This is an interview with John Parrish by Von Pig on
November 26, 1988 at John's apartment concerning
the Vietnam War. In the interest of accumulating
knowledge about the war, I'm going to donate this
tape to the Texas A&M Oral History Collection in
the University Archives. Is this okay with you?
That's fine with me. All right. John, could you
please tell me when you were born? I was born May 14,
1949. Okay, and where? I was born in Mineral Wells,
Texas. Could you also please tell me...
I went through school, finished high school, got
12 hours of college. That's
about it. Okay. When did you join the Army, John?
1967, December. Why'd you join? Well, at the time,
in the neighborhood that we grew up in, that's what
everybody had to do, more or less. Everybody went
in before you, and it was just a thing to do, and they
just won't get you sooner or later. So you weren't
drafted. This wasn't voluntary? I volunteered
for the draft. Volunteered for the draft.
Could you give me a brief sketch about your
military career before you went to Vietnam? Okay,
but I went in December of 1967. They sent me to Fort
Polk, Louisiana for boot camp. From there I stayed
at Fort Polk for another eight weeks of AIT. And
from there they sent me to Germany. I was there in
Germany for approximately five, six months where
I reenlisted three years to leave Germany to go to
Vietnam. And then from Germany, after
reenlisting, I went to Vietnam. All right. Where
were you stationed in Vietnam?
I was stationed on the Delta for seven, eight
months in a small town called Ben Thuy. And the last
year and a half, I served just outside of Pleiku in
the Central Highlands. What units were you
stationed with, first at Ventui and then up at...
At Ventui, I think I was with the 34th Engineers.
And then when I went north to the Central Highlands
to be with my brother, my twin brother, that was the
B Battery 1st and 92nd Artillery.
And this artillery unit was stationed close to
Pleiku up in the Central Highlands area, right?
Yeah, so the unit B battery was located out in the
field on a fire sport base. Our base camp was
Pleiku. What was your rank during your tenure at
Vietnam? Well, I finished as an E-5, and the time I
was up there, field grade. It went so fast. As soon
as I got up to Central Highlands, I was a spec four.
And no time at all, I was an E-5. How long were you in
Vietnam? Two years. Two years. Did you volunteer
for a second tour during that time? I volunteered
twice. I volunteered a third time, but it was
turned down. Turned down.
And what was your MOS? I finished up as a 13 Echo 20 as
a recon sergeant.
John, could you please describe the job of your
unit and what they were there for? The B Battery was
mainly for support in that region. We were located
in a very high hilltop and it was mainly for support
for any units or any other bases that was around us.
It was mainly for support, fire support,
artillery support. So y'all would be called upon
by units in the field for artillery support any
time? Were you called on by the American Army or the
South Vietnamese Army or both? In our region,
there was no American infantry. The region we was
in was all Vietnamese. We had some Korean
soldiers. We were called the Rocks. And we had
mountain yards. It was led by the Special Forces
units.
All right. Why don't you describe your job to me and
what you did? Okay. My main job, and this is when I
went to the Central Highlands, was when I first
started out, my MOS did not include artillery. I
never had artillery training whatsoever. And I
left the Delta to be with my twin brother. He was
mainly artilleryman. And I wanted to be up there
with them, and I finally got the approval to go to be
with him. So we was together, and I basically
started out being a journeyman, OJT training. And
I started out just breaking open powder canisters
for the 155 pouch. That's how I started out. And I
winded up being a board observer. All right, could
you describe what you would do as a forward
observer? As a forward observer, we'd go out, we'd
try to find out what unit or what job, what specific
job you would have to do. It could be anywhere from
going out with an RV division, a mountain yard
division, or a company. They had four companies
called Mike Strike Units, or you could have been on
a convoy unit. And your job as an FO, if you were an
FO, an FO was to call in artillery fire. An RTO,
which I was an RTO also, you had to start out as an
RTO, then an FO. An RTO was a radio operator. You
carried the radio. So I did all those things. All
right. Describe a daily routine that you would
follow at your base camp or if you were out as a
former
observer? Well, let's see. I'm trying to see which
way to go with this. I played two parts. I guess I can
go ahead and say or talk about mainly our life on the
fire support base because that was home. If you
wasn't out there in the bush as an FO or a G.O., you
was up here on this fire support base. This fire
support base was located in a high mountain ridge,
and the only way to get up there was by helicopter.
And that's where you lived, and you lived in what we
called hooches. And you dug holes into the
mountain, filled sandbags, and you protected it
with sandbags and also some metal pieces if you
were lucky to find them. And then in order to keep
you dry, if you were lucky, you got elephant hide.
You lived up there in this little fire base. Your
main job was to mainly give support.
If everything was quiet, mainly you kept the guns
clean. You kept them swabbed down. You cleaned out
the breaches. You made sure that everything was in
working order.
How long were you up on this fire base? On the fire
base, just off and on, I was up there a year and a
half. A year and a half. What kind of conditions,
living conditions, did y'all have? I mean, just
describe your hoochies, you know, where you
slept. Did y'all have hot food or sea rats most of
the time? The conditions on this fire base was bad,
real bad. Of course, you lived in hoochies and you
lived underground. It was cold. When it rained in
the monsoon, it was damp, muddy. Rats were so bad,
you had to leave your boots on. You had to sleep with
your clothes on because the rats nibble you or eat
at you. They'd eat everything you had.
They tried to get us hot food up there once a week.
They tried. They kept us supplied with water.
Everything
came in by chopper. And our water ration, they try
to keep us enough water supply. So we mainly ate sea
rations. As
far as showers, we had a little shower stall. and
you punch holes in it, somebody would get a
canister. You was allowed three canisters of
water. When the water came in, you was allowed
three. And you'd get it, pour it through the hole,
and that was your shower. But if you didn't have any
water, you didn't take a shower. So the conditions
up there on this fire base was bad, real bad.
Terribly bad. Flies, mosquitoes, spiders, you
name it. It was bad.
Did the VC or the NVA bother y'all much on this fire
base? Were y'all under mortar attack constantly?
In the year and a half, there was a long fight.
Probably about three, four months was a long
fight. Usually that hit you with harassments,
mortar rounds. Usually if a helicopter came in,
they'd hit you with a rocket fire. They launched
some ground attacks against us, but we weren't
ever under siege as far as our fire base. There came
a time where the Tet Offensive came in where we were
up countless days and nights firing, and also from
the ground attacks, but that was probably, the Tet
Offensive lasted about a month. Most of it was
mostly rocket and mortar round attacks.
Most of this come at night? Yeah, the ground
attacks came at night, but the mortar rounds and
rocket rounds, they hit you in the daytime. Did
you ever get to go back to the rear during this year
and a half? You have a Saigon R&R. How often did that
happen? So you got an R&R every six months where
they ask you if you want to go to Taipei, Bangkok,
Hawaii, the Philippines, Japan, whatever. And I
usually went to Taipei. The girls are pretty
there.
I mean, I guess in the rear what we most guys doing is
okay in the rear and our rear was plate to that was
the city. And that was our main attachment. That's
where headquarters was. And that was called
artillery here. It was in the city and the life back
in the city was like living in Holland Park. You
went to the rear to play coup to headquarters
battalion. That was like living in Highland Park.
I mean, you had all the necessities you needed
there. You name it, you had it. So that was like,
man, just leaving the slums of East Dallas and
going to Highland Park. That was the difference.
All right. Did the... The Army trained you
adequately to do your job in the field? Well, the
Army didn't train me to do my job. I learned OJT. My
twin brother was trained in the artillery
business, and he went to Fort Sill. But I went from
the south of Vietnam, and I was a radio operator
down there for an engineer unit. And I didn't see
any combat. I didn't see nothing down there. So I
wanted to be with my twin brother. And I think even
today, I think it's a rarity that my twin and I were
together in a combat situation up in the Central
Highlands. And both of us came forward observers.
My job down there was very easy, and I was trained
for that job. But once I left there and went to the
Central Highlands to be with my brother to be on
these guns, I had zero training, zero. And my only
training to become an FO was when we was getting hit
by mortar rounds. And I was calling in support from
another fire base to give us support because we was
getting hit. And after I got through with calling
in these rounds, My first sergeant said, hey,
that's great. You're going to be an FO. And then he
sent my brother and I to train to an FO school for one
week. And then when I came back up, I became an FO.
Let's get a more general scale.
Your staff NCOs, the majority of them, were they
trained well enough to do their job? Or was it more
of a hurry up, let's get more people in here and see
what they can do? We're always at our NCOs. I would
feel,
when I look back at it now, that's a question I
wouldn't ask. That's the first time I've been
asked that. I always say, looking back today, that
they wouldn't train that well. I don't think they
were. Because most of them lived in fear, and they
wanted out. They were out there in the field for six
months, and that was it when they got out. Officers
and NCOs, and I'm saying E6 or E7 and above served
six months in the field, and they were back out
again. So they didn't really care. What about the
officers? The officers didn't play a very minor
role because the men wouldn't listen to an
officer. They had no respect for an officer. Okay.
Why was this? Were the officers just not prepared
or didn't care? Yeah, the officers were what we
refer to 90-day wonders. They went to school and
they learned something so quick inside of three
months. They came back out and they had to serve
their six months in the field or the bush. And then
once they got out there, they was not prepared.
They was only prepared by the textbook of what they
were taught in the books. Once they got out there,
things changed. Things were different. And they
were ill-prepared for that because it didn't
work. It just didn't work. The officers seemed
more concerned about their careers, going to
Vietnam, getting their ticket punched,
advancing their career for later stages. I can't
really say that. From the officers that I knew that
came up, there was quite a few. They just wanted to
come up and serve their time and get the hell out. So
more or less, they just punched in and wanted out.
And that was it. They didn't want to stay out in the
field. Was your unit a pretty close group up on this
fire base? High sense of camaraderie, high
spirit? Well, the fire base that we was on, fire
base six, there was a total of, I would say, 40 to 50
men. on this little fire base. And we were divided.
You had your Blacks, your Whites, you had your
Dopers, and the Alkies. You had your Northerns,
and you had your Southerns. So it was very divided.
When everything was quiet, it was divided.
Let's discuss some of the different operations
that you would go on. If I could have you to describe
an operation that you can remember that was a
success. A success would be one where I went out on a
chopper and I had to replace an RTO, a radio
operator, in Coppolaire and they had to extract
him out of the jungle. And of course, you know,
before you went out to the jungle, you had to go back
to headquarters and get briefed on what you had to
do. And they'd give you an SOP book and everything.
They gave you a map and everything else. Now, they
flew me out by this one, by this chopper, and they
flew me in. And they dropped me into it, and they was
waiting on me. And while we were there, it was all
mountain yards. And the leader of the group was a
guy named King Groot. He was a Green Beret. They
called him King Groot. You know, they didn't have
any names. They had nicknames. His name was
Kangaroo. The main objective of this bunch was to
hit and run. And I was there just long enough where I
almost got picked to do the hit and run. But I think
the guy that was with me, the guy that, the FO, he
told Kangaroo, he says, well, I'm a little bit too
green. I can't do this hit and run. So at the last
minute, he managed to pull me out of it. So the basic
objective of this group is to do a hit and run on an
NVA unit that was around, and to kill as many as they
could, and then we can get the hell out. And that's
what happened. I went out, made a hit and run, and
then for two days ran.
What about a failure in any particular incident
that something just completely fell apart
That you remember? Failure. I can't think of a
failure. I really can't. I can't think of a
breakdown at all. Okay. Well, let's get into the
situation here. You're a Fort Observer calling an
artillery fire. Was this fire fairly accurate?
Uh, it all depended on the group that you had, you
know. I was up there on those guns and I knew that
drugs were bad. And if the guys came up there and
they had a bad attitude, and there were always bad
attitudes, there were drugs, you could get a round
that would land right on top of him, you know. You
just didn't know. You just hoped that you got the
best group of guys on the right gun section. you
know, and hope that that group got it, and they
caught it in the fire. But there was some times
where they caught it, boy, they dropped it right on
top of it. Right on top.
Let me close that door real quick. All right.
I didn't sign 10.
Your unit was basically attached with ARVN units
and mountain yards and some Korean soldiers. What
did you think of the South Vietnamese Army? I was
very dissatisfied with the South Vietnamese
soldiers. They didn't care. Their morale was low.
It was ragtag. They didn't care. When you went out
with them, they kind of went out like they just
didn't care, like, you know, go off through the
bush, and if they see a trail, they'd follow the
trail. It didn't make any sense. If you were with
the mountain yards, it was a very strict
discipline group. They would make their own way,
but the orange was a very poor discipline, low
morale group. Very poor. So that base could have
cared less whether they won the war or not? That's
exactly the feeling we got. We knew it. Do they
just, I mean, one government under North
Vietnamese rule or one government South
Vietnamese rule? Well, there's a lot of, you know,
there's a lot of hatred between South Vietnamese
soldiers and American soldiers when we was up
there on this little fire base. When the
Vietnamese was on the perimeter, there was a lot of
hatred. A lot of hatred. There were times where it
came very close where we almost had firefights
with them, right there on the hilltop. So there was
a lot of hatred. There was no rapport or
cooperation whatsoever.
The mountain yards that I've read were good
fighters? Excellent fighters. Excellent. What
was their basic goals? I mean, they would seem to be
just a tribal unit within South Vietnam. What were
their goals in this war? It's kind of hard to say
because, you know, the Special Forces, or Mag V,
trained them. So what their objective was, what
their goals were in that region is hard to say
because I can't answer that. I can't answer that.
But they were excellent soldiers. Excellent. Did
the Koreans perform? Yeah, the Koreans did. They
was a rock hard unit. They did an excellent job.
They were very hard and very skilled. Very good
soldiers. They fought very well.
Did you ever interact with the Vietnamese people
much? Yes. What did they think about the war? I
think Vietnamese people look more at the war, not
so much as the war, as they were caught up in the city
dwelling and the city life as far as just getting
the soldiers money, the economy, and all the money
that came with it. That's all they cared about.
They just reaped the profits. Black market, yeah,
you betcha, black market. Whatever they could
make a buck on, that's all they cared about. Dad
didn't care about the war he won or he lost, as long
as they made the bucks off the GI. That's all they
cared about.
They just wanted to have rice on their table at
night, enough food to eat. Well, whatever they
wanted the money for. What did the South
Vietnamese people think about the North
Vietnamese? or I guess there's really not that
much of a distinction. That was a distinction we
gave everything. What they thought about the
communist regime in the North, in Ho Chi Minh.
Yeah. Von, you know, you got to remember I was 18
years old. 18, 19 years old. And I couldn't begin to
comprehend that type of thinking. I couldn't even
begin to think. So, you know, you asked me a
question at the time I never thought of. Okay. All
right. Did you... How much involvement, or did the
North Vietnamese follow y'all that much at the
time? NVA units, or did y'all basically have VC? We
basically had VC in the area. But the NVA would
launch an offensive, mainly doing the Tet
Offensive. They'd launch an offensive. And in our
region, They'd be very heavy doing the 10
offensive. Very heavy in our region. Extremely
heavy. But they never did bowler's in most of the
VCs that bowler has. The NVA good soldiers? They
were good fighters. Intense. Yeah, they were
good. Well trained, well armed. And the VC were
just... in and out, never knew where they were? Oh,
they were in and out, but you know, their
dedication is what carried them. You know, that's
what made the distinction between a South
Vietnamese soldier who was well armed and well
supposedly trained as a player to the VC. You know,
they were just a ragtag farmer during the day and a
soldier at night, you know, was their dedication,
what they believed in. And that was a difference
out there. So that made the B.C. a well-trained
individual for what he believed in. Before we
started this interview on tape, I was asked some
questions about and brought up anti-war
demonstrators. Could you tell me your feelings
about these people on tape? I dislike them. I hate
them. I have a lot of hatred for him even today. I
can't find one today that admit that he was a
demonstrator. To me they're just chickens. They
just backed out. They're scared. They're scared
now to admit what they were now. And that just goes
to show you what they was afraid of back then.
They're just a lot of bunch of chickens, all they
are. They didn't have enough guts, enough pride,
nothing to stand up what they believed in. And at
least if they didn't believe in it, just stand
behind their government. And I hate them. I hate
them. During your tour in Vietnam, did you feel
that you were doing the right thing? Yes. With
Vietnamese people? Well, I didn't look at it like
that. I felt like it was the right thing to serve my
country. That's what I looked at. The utmost was
I'm serving my country. That's what I'm looking
at. I never thought about going over there and
protecting the South of Vietnam. Never once
crossed my mind. My utmost was I'm serving my
country. If my country wants me to go, I'm going to
go. That's what my sole purpose was. All right.
What did you feel about the draft? The draft? Well,
of course, I volunteered for the draft. I was going
to get in, serve my two years, and get out.
The draft I felt like was right. I wish I had the
draft today. It would help. the younger people
understand a lot more about responsibility,
dedication about life in general. It teaches you a
lot. I mean, it's helped me in my life now at the age
of almost 40 years old in what I've learned when I
was in the Army and been drafted. And what I learned
at that age that I can apply to my life now. And then
when times are tough, times are hard, I can always
look back at what I did in Vietnam where things
hurt. Extremely tough and related to today, and it
helped me through a lot of problems. It helped me
through a lot. Okay. What about the people who
joined the National Guard at this time to get out?
Was that... What, back then? Back then. I never
knew about it. I really didn't. You know, being 18
years old, the only thing I had in my mind was just
going in. Okay. Very good. This war was the first,
quote, TV war. Mass media in Vietnam brought the
war home the next night to the American public. Was
the press and the media involved where you were, or
did you ever see them?
The only press we had out there I remember was Stars
and Stripes. You know, they came up to the fire base
and did a story. But they was mainly up there to do a
story of my brother and I. So did you know about the
media or any problems that it was causing
elsewhere? Reporters being in? No, because we
never got papers. Where we was at, the only kind of
communication we had was armed forces radio. If
you're lucky to have a radio, then that's what you
heard on the news. But you never got a newspaper
telling you what's going on. Never. I'd
like to dig into some of the problems that were
prevalent during this time. Drugs were a big
problem. Could you elaborate a little bit? Drugs
was terrible. Drugs was so bad. I think that was the
big cause of our...
As far as our involvement in Vietnam, in the way
that everybody's attitude was, you know, the way
they looked at the war was drugs. I mean, it tore a
lot of men up. It tore a lot of young men up. They lost
a lot of lives, too, on the count of drugs. Was it
just a lack of education about drugs, what they
could do, or why did the men turn to it? Well, I'm
sure it's lack of education because nobody knew
about drugs. I didn't know what a marijuana
cigarette was until I went over there. I had no idea
what a marijuana cigarette was. I didn't know what
a marijuana cigarette was until I was on the way up
to the Central Highlands to meet my brother and I
got on this helicopter with this other guy from
California. And we was going back, and the fire
base was getting attacked at the time. So they had
to drop us off at this other area. This one guy had a
marijuana cigarette and said, hey, you want to try
this? And of course, I was John Wayne out of the
American flag. I said, yeah, I'll try. So that's my
first time I ever knew about drugs. So there was a
lack of education. Nobody knew about it, how to
approach it, how to defend it. So drugs are just so
rampant. You've been 18, 19, 20-year-olds. They
didn't know how to cope with it. Okay. Was
marijuana the main drug that was being used, or was
there others? Well, it's hard to say. I say all of it
was, yeah, all of it, you know. Marijuana was easy
to get to, but all of it was so easy to get to. Yeah, so
easy. Was there a period during the war where drug
use made a drastic, or the use of drugs increased a
significant amount, or could you tell? Yes. I
would say it did because it went from marijuana to
the hard stuff. Soon it was opium. Soon all your
marijuana was dusted with opium and things like
that. So it progressed later on. Sure,
eventually. Sometime around after Tet, you
notice the problems increasing or? Yeah, the
drugs were bad then because Tet put so much
pressure and there was so much tension and stress
on you. And sometimes you went two, three, four
days without sleep. Yeah, drugs were real bad
then. Everybody would do uppers, they'd do
anything to speed themselves up to get them going
and things like that because you couldn't sleep.
Discipline was another problem. And you've told
me before that the men didn't listen to the
officers. Do you think there should have been a
stronger discipline during this time if we could
have performed better with stricter discipline
in the field? Well, they tried that, and it didn't
work. The only thing they got was the fact that the
officers wanted to kill the
soldiers. The GIs wanted to kill the officers
because if they came up there and tried to do this
very strict discipline, like on a fire support
base where we was at, everything's so lax. You
didn't worry about haircuts. You didn't worry
about baths. You didn't worry about your boots.
You didn't care about nothing. And then when there
was a low on the fighting, and this is an example
where we got this one captain up there named
Captain Fink. I never will forget his name. And he
came up and tried that and brought up all the shoe
polish and ordered everybody to polish their
boots. Because that was the first sign of having
discipline on this fire support base. Well, it
didn't work. Everybody got their shoe polish and
threw it over the perimeter of the barbed wires.
Threw it. That night they tried to kill him. That
next day, he was out. So it didn't work. Was
fragging a big problem? Yeah. They tried to kill
them. If they didn't like them, they tried to kill
them. All right. The problem with the officers,
let's say, what would you look for in an officer
that would come up to your fire support base?
That the officer didn't come up and try to push
everything down our throat. That everybody
wouldn't be left alone. If there was a fire mission
that had to be taken care of, then everybody got up
there and did their job. But they didn't want to be
pushed around and made to do things like they did in
the rear or the main base camp or headquarters
battalion and how they were treated. We didn't
want to be treated the same way. We wanted to be
treated separate from all those people because we
felt like we was out there. We was doing it. And we
want to be left alone. Job called, forced to do our
job, we'd get up and do it. But don't mess with
nobody. Just leave us alone. And that was added to.
Thank you.
You mentioned earlier that there was different
groups. When things were lax, that the blacks
would segregate off. You'd have the northerners,
the southerners, the whites, the druggies, and
the alcoholics. Was there a bad problem with the
racism, I mean pure hatred, amongst the whites and
blacks? Up there on the fire base there wasn't. You
know, we just knew where they were coming from and
they knew where we was coming from, but there was no
bad hatred among us. But you could tell that
they're, you know, you leave us alone, we'll leave
you alone. And that was the type of attitude. But
still, when it came to working together, it all
worked well. It was all mixed well, but once
everything was over, then everybody crawled back
in a little hole, and that's the way it was. Man, you
left each other alone. You didn't bother each
other. Is that the same basic sentiment in the rear
also? Yeah. Where it's getting worse. Yeah. Yeah,
in the rear, I would say that racism was worse in the
rear because, you know, they... The things that
they had to go through back there was just like
stateside duty. So racism was definitely worse in
the rear than it was in the field because you knew
that you had to depend on each other out there in the
field. Where back there they didn't.
All right. Did you feel that the potential of the
American Army was being held back? Because y'all
felt y'all could have done more. We could have
kicked their ass easy, pure and simple. We could
have kicked their ass. Man, we could have ran them
out all the way out of Vietnam, north and south,
easy, you betcha. And that was part of it, too.
Everybody knew that we could have gone out there
and kicked everybody's ass. They came into it. We
could have kicked them off, but they wouldn't let
us do it. We had certain restrictions. You
couldn't fire too far this way. You couldn't fire
too far this way, but you could fire this way. So
there were so many restrictions where everybody
just said, the hell with you. But we could have
kicked them all the way out, man. There ain't no
doubt in my mind. And any Vietnam veteran would
tell you that. I thought it was the rules of this
particular war that seemed to hold us back. Right,
it was rules. Rules are set, and you couldn't break
them. Every now and then they were broke, but you
had to hide it from the American public in order to
break that rule.
If I could get back into the press and the American
public seeing this back at home, what we were
doing. Right, it was bad PR. I mean, this was war. It
was war. I don't see where you can have this. That's
right. That's why, Satan, you just said that. It's
hard to believe, but we thought the same thing. Why
can we have rules? Why are there rules? So
everybody, of course, you don't get an answer. You
just do what you're supposed to do. Okay. You think
we could have won this war? Ain't no doubt in my
mind. Like I just said just a minute ago, we could
have kicked them all the way out. We could have
kicked them all the way out. What would you have
done different? What I could have done different?
On a whole, if you were looking at the war
yourself... Oh, war. And what, from your
experiences...
Basically, when you go into a war, you declare it as
a war, you go in and you kick your butts. You have an
objective, you go in with that objective, you
conquer that objective, and you've done your job.
That's what I see about it. If they would come up
tomorrow and say, all Vietnam veterans, you can
come back to South Vietnam, And you can get over
there and kick their butts any way you want to, in
any direction, have at it. Maybe we'd load up and
we'd kick their ass. So you'd go back and drop a hat?
I'd go back, damn right I would. When you came home,
what was American sentiment towards you? Were you
treated bad?
Well, As soon as you came home, the first thing they
did to you on the airplane was they stuck you off on
the end of a runway.
And you had to sit there for three hours at the end of
the runway. They never explained to you why. And
you just sit there, you sat there for three hours,
you couldn't understand, why are we just sitting
here for three hours? Well, once they get you off
the airplane, they bring you into the reception
center, and I'm talking about Fort Lewis,
Washington.
They set you down in a room, and they, and they talk
to you, and they, what, deprogram, or I forgot what
the terminology was for what they did to you. But
they deep programmed you, so to speak.
And all you want to do is just get in and get out.
Well, they did that for about an hour. And then
inside of another hour and a half, two hours, they
give you a T-bone steak if you wanted it. And then
your airplane takes you back home. Once you got to
the airport, the sentiments were so bad and
negative that it
There at the bar, I remember this one bar where I
came in, the first thing I did was order me a drink. I
turned to this guy, I said, man, I'm just back home
from Nam, and he looked at me and said, so what? So,
you know, that was my first impression coming
back. And I remember when I was going to Vietnam, I
was going to Fort Lewis, Washington, to go to
Vietnam, and I was on this airplane. And the
stewardess wouldn't even serve me. She wouldn't
serve me food because I was going to Vietnam. And so
the stewardess came back, or came up and asked me if
I was hungry. I said, yes, I am. She said, well, I
came in to get your food. I said, well, she didn't
ask me. She says, OK. She said, she does this to
Vietnam veterans. She won't serve a Vietnam
veteran. So that's what you had to encounter.
John, you stated that You moved from the
engineering battalion up to Central Highlands to
be your brother. How did this come about? How did
you get to go up there? Well, it's kind of funny.
I've got to go back just a little bit more because my
brother went in the service corps I did. And I went
in approximately five, six months after he did.
And they shipped him straight to Vietnam from
artillery school. But when I went in, they sent me
to Germany. Well, while in Germany, I re-enlisted
three years in the Army to go to Vietnam. So when I
came home, they sent me to Vietnam to the Mekong
Delta, and they shipped my twin brother from
Vietnam to Germany. So I was in a non-combat role in
South Vietnam in the Delta. And my brother was in
Germany at the time. Well, he re-enlisted three
more years to go back to Vietnam. So he went back to
Vietnam, and they sent him up to the Central
Highlands. Well, the time that I was down at the
Delta, I was very unhappy. I wanted to play a role in
combat. I mean, I wanted to be out there in the bush.
I mean, I wanted to beat the bush, and I wanted to be
out there. And I had a couple friends in school that
died that were killed in Vietnam. So I wanted to go
to Vietnam, and I wanted to fight in Vietnam. I
tried to get out of this engineer unit to be with my
brother, and I went to the inspector general, I
went to the chaplain, I went through all the
channels that you could possibly go through to get
out. And it was always revoked by this Captain
Sears, which I won't forget his name, because he
didn't want me to go, because it looked bad on him if
a man transferred out of your unit. It looked bad.
Well, All the channels that I went through fell.
And I was at a bar one night, and I was talking to this
black GI. He was an E6 in personnel. And we was
talking, and I was talking about my dilemma, why I
was down. And he said, listen, man, I'm in
personnel. I'll help you get out. Now, this is
another sign of how the Army works, you know. And an
E6, this guy got me out inside of three days. Got the
paperwork, got it approved, and everything. Got
me out in three days, and I went up to Central
Highlands with my brother, where we was up there
together. As far as I know, I think we're the only 20
that was together in Vietnam. Did y'all go on
operations together? No, we always went
separate. Always went separate. Yeah, right. The
first sergeant insisted that we went separate. Of
course, we agreed to go separate. We never went on
the same one. All right, well, John, I appreciate
it. Okay. I hope your answers and everything can
help some other people understand kind of what
went on. I'd like to give a little brief summary
here that I'd like to say thank you very much for
asking these questions. This is the first time
that I've ever been asked questions of this sort,
and it feels good to be asked these questions, and I
hope that in some way that my answers can help the
younger people that are going to come up in your day
and behind you that can help understand what we
went through. There's a lot more that you just
can't express in 45 minutes. There's a lot more
that needs to be said to
the people to let them know what we went through.
But I do want to say thank you very much for coming up
here and asking me these questions. It feels very
good, and I want to thank you very much. Appreciate
it, John. Thank you.